\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename litex-mode.info
@settitle 
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@finalout
@titlepage
@title 
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top 
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Li@TeX{} mode::
* How to Use::
* Keybindings::
* Explanation for functions::
* Customization::
* Configuration::
* Contributing::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Explanation for functions

* litex-format-region-last::
* litex-format-region::
* litex-eval-and-replace::
* litex-eval-and-insert::
* litex-sexp-to-latex-exp::
* litex-sexp-solve-all-steps::
* litex-increment-number::
* litex-exp-to-latex::
* litex-exp-in-latex-math::
* litex-sexp-solve-all-steps-equation::
* litex-sexp-solve-all-steps-eqnarray::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Li@TeX{} mode
@chapter Li@TeX{} mode

This is a minor mode to convert valid elisp/lisp expressions to latex.

This is useful for emacs users because emacs allows lisp code to be directly evaluated inside any buffer, which means no need to have any code blocks. But since lisp expressions aren't popular we can't expect to put them in reports, so to overcome that I wrote this mode with the help of my friend @uref{https://gist.github.com/bpanthi977, Bibek Panthi}.

The beginning of this mode, and previous codes are here:
@itemize
@item
@uref{https://emacs.stackexchange.com/questions/70358/how-can-i-convert-a-lisp-expression-to-a-latex-math-expression/70360?noredirect=1#comment113158_70360, Stackexchange Question}
@item
@uref{https://gist.github.com/bpanthi977/4b8ece0eeff3bc05bb82275a23cbb56d, Bibek's gist}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/Atreyagaurav/emacs-modules, My previous calculation template mode and first few versions of Li@TeX{}}

Suppose we have this in a text file, we have all the variables and the formula as lisp expressions.
@end itemize
@example
   Net radiation, (setq R_n 185) W/m²
   Temperature, (setq T 28.5) °C
   Relative Humidity, (setq Rh .55)
   Air velocity at 2m height, (setq u_2 2.7) m/s
   Atmospheric pressure, (setq p 101.3e3) Pa
   Roughness height, (setq Z_0 0.03) cm
   (setq Z_2 200) cm

   Energy balance method:
   (setq E_r (/ (- R_n H_s G) l_v ρ_w))

   Where,
   (setq l_v (- 2500 (* 2.36 T))) kJ/kg
   (setq l_v (* l_v 1e3)) J/kg
   From table 2.5.2
   (setq ρ_w 996.4) kg/m³

   Assume, (setq H_s 0 G 0)
   (setq E_r (/ (- R_n H_s G) l_v ρ_w))
@end example

After evaluating all expressions, we can get the values, while we can also convert them to latex format like this:
@example
   Net radiation, R_n = 185 W/m²
   Temperature, T = 28.5 °C
   Relative Humidity, Rh = 0.55
   Air velocity at 2m height, u_2 = 2.7 m/s
   Atmospheric pressure, p = 1.01 \times 10^@{5@} Pa
   Roughness height, Z_0 = 0.3 cm
   Z_2 = 200 cm

   Energy balance method:
   E_r = \frac@{R_n - H_s - G@}@{l_v ρ_w @}

   Where,
   l_v = 2500 - 2.360 T  = 2500 - 2.360 \times 28.500  = 2500 - 67.260 = 2432.74 kJ/kg
   l_v = l_v \times 1000  = 2432740.0 J/kg
   From table 2.5.2
   ρ_w = 996.400 kg/m³

   Assume, H_s = 0; G = 0
   E_r = \frac@{R_n - H_s - G@}@{l_v ρ_w @} = \frac@{185 - 0 - 0@}@{2432.740 \times 996.400 @} = \frac@{185@}@{2432.740 \times 996.400 @} = 7.63 \times 10^@{-05@}
@end example

So not only can it convert lisp expressions to latex, it can also, give intermediate solution steps. Perfect for doing homeworks (as that's what I made it for) :P


@node How to Use
@chapter How to Use

Here is a @uref{https://youtu.be/esEf63gSSPg, demo video} describing the features of Li@TeX{} mode.

For Text descriptions refer sections below for details on what each function does, and the meaning of custom variables.

You can also access it all from texinfo file provided with the package.

@node Keybindings
@chapter Keybindings

@lisp
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "F") 'litex-format-region)
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "f") 'litex-format-region-last)
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "E") 'litex-eval-and-replace)
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "e") 'litex-eval-and-insert)
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "s") 'litex-sexp-to-latex-exp)
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "S") 'litex-sexp-solve-all-steps)
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "+") 'litex-increment-number)
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "l") 'litex-exp-to-latex)
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "m") 'litex-exp-in-latex-math)
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "A") 'litex-sexp-solve-all-steps-equation)
(define-key litex-key-map (kbd "a") 'litex-sexp-solve-all-steps-eqnarray)
@end lisp

@node Explanation for functions
@chapter Explanation for functions

@menu
* litex-format-region-last::
* litex-format-region::
* litex-eval-and-replace::
* litex-eval-and-insert::
* litex-sexp-to-latex-exp::
* litex-sexp-solve-all-steps::
* litex-increment-number::
* litex-exp-to-latex::
* litex-exp-in-latex-math::
* litex-sexp-solve-all-steps-equation::
* litex-sexp-solve-all-steps-eqnarray::
@end menu

@node litex-format-region-last
@section litex-format-region-last

Formats the selection based on variable @code{litex-format-string}.

For example: @code{2.3434343} ⇒ @code{2.34} (when @code{litex-format-string} is @code{.2f})

@node litex-format-region
@section litex-format-region

Same as @code{litex-format-region-last} but asks for the format, it also sets the @code{litex-format-string} variable.

@strong{NOTE}: Doesn't work well with multiple-cursors, so first use this once, then use the @code{litex-format-region-last} on the multiple cursors.

@node litex-eval-and-replace
@section litex-eval-and-replace

Evals the last sexp and replaces it with the evaluation value.

@node litex-eval-and-insert
@section litex-eval-and-insert

Evals the last sexp and inserts the evaluation value after that.

The value and sexp are separated by @code{litex-steps-join-string} which is "= " by default.

@node litex-sexp-to-latex-exp
@section litex-sexp-to-latex-exp

Converts valid lisp sexp to latex Expression:

For example: @code{(+ 2 3 (* 6 x))} ⇒ @code{2 + 3 + 6 x}

@node litex-sexp-solve-all-steps
@section litex-sexp-solve-all-steps

Solves lisp sexp steps by steps:

For example:
@code{(setq x 5)} ⇒ @code{x = 5} then @code{(setq y (+ 2 3 (* 6 x)))} ⇒ @code{y = (+ 2 3 (* 6 x))  = (+ 2 3 (* 6 5))  = (+ 2 3 30)  = 35}

@node litex-increment-number
@section litex-increment-number

Increments the number.

@code{some/url/to/chapter-2} ⇒  @code{some/url/to/chapter-3}

@node litex-exp-to-latex
@section litex-exp-to-latex

Converts exponential term to latex format.

@code{1.23e-34} ⇒ @code{1.23 \times 10^@{-34@}}

@node litex-exp-in-latex-math
@section litex-exp-in-latex-math

Encloses the selection in latex inline math.

@code{1.23e-34} ⇒ @code{\(1.23e-34\)}

@node litex-sexp-solve-all-steps-equation
@section litex-sexp-solve-all-steps-equation

Same as @code{litex-sexp-solve-all-steps} but puts them in equation environment.

For example: @code{(setq y (+ 2 3 (* 6 x)))} ⇒

@example
\begin@{equation@}
y= 2 + 3 + 6 x  = 2 + 3 + 6 \times 5  = 2 + 3 + 30 = 35
\end@{equation@}
@end example

@node litex-sexp-solve-all-steps-eqnarray
@section litex-sexp-solve-all-steps-eqnarray

Same as @code{litex-sexp-solve-all-steps} but puts them in eqnarray* environment.


For example: @code{(setq y (+ 2 3 (* 6 x)))} ⇒

@example
\begin@{eqnarray*@}
y &=& 2 + 3 + 6 x \\
 &=& 2 + 3 + 6 \times 5 \\
 &=& 2 + 3 + 30\\
 &=& 35
\end@{eqnarray*@}
@end example

@node Customization
@chapter Customization

There are lots of variables that define how each of these functions behave.

@multitable {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Variable Name
@tab Default Value
@tab What it does
@item litex-latex-functions
@tab '(sin cos tan)
@tab Lisp functions that have their own latex commands.
@item litex-make-hyphenated-to-subscript
@tab t
@tab Whether to make the hyphenated variables subscript or not.
@item litex-latex-maybe-enclose?
@tab nil
@tab Enclose latex converted to paran if needed.
@item litex-format-float-string
@tab "%.3f"
@tab Format string to be used by floats.
@item litex-format-float-upper-limit
@tab 1e4
@tab Upper limit of what number is formatted as float.
@item litex-format-float-lower-limit
@tab 1e-2
@tab Lower limit of what number is formatted as float.
@item litex-steps-join-string
@tab "= "
@tab String used for joining strings in steps of a solution.
@item litex-steps-end-string
@tab " "
@tab String used at the end of each strings in steps of a solution.
@item litex-math-inline-start
@tab "\\("
@tab Opening syntax for math inline environment.
@item litex-math-inline-end
@tab "\\)"
@tab Closing syntax for math inline environment.
@item litex-math-equation-start
@tab "\"
@tab Opening syntax for math equation environment.
@item litex-math-equation-end
@tab "\"
@tab Closing syntax for math equation environment.
@item litex-math-steps-equation-join-string
@tab "= "
@tab Value of `litex-steps-join-string' to be used in equation environment.
@item litex-math-steps-equation-end-string
@tab " "
@tab Value of `litex-steps-end-string' to be used in equation environment.
@item litex-math-eqnarray-start
@tab "\"
@tab Opening syntax for math eqnarray environment.
@item litex-math-eqnarray-end
@tab "\"
@tab Closing syntax for math eqnarray environment.
@item litex-math-steps-eqnarray-join-string
@tab " &=& "
@tab Value of `litex-steps-join-string' to be used in eqnarray environment.
@item litex-math-steps-eqnarray-end-string
@tab "\\\\"
@tab Value of `litex-steps-end-string' to be used in eqnarray environment.
@end multitable

@node Configuration
@chapter Configuration

Clone the repo into your machine and add the path to @code{load-path}, or just load the individual module you want to add.

Sample configuration using @code{use-package} I use is as follows:

@lisp
(use-package litex-mode
  :load-path "~/.emacs.d/myfunc/litex-mode/"
  :commands litex-mode
  :hook text-mode
  :config (local-set-key (kbd "C-e") litex-key-map)
  )
@end lisp

@node Contributing
@chapter Contributing

Since this package is new, I'd appreciate contributions on few things:

@itemize
@item
There are many tests to be written for the functions.
@item
Many functions that might have special syntax in @LaTeX{} yet to be written. For example @code{1+}, @code{defun} were added later (it only started with 4 operators), similar could be done for many more.
@item
Fixing some glitches with the current functions.
@item
Maybe some symbolic calculations using @code{calc-eval} if it has variables that are not yet defined.
@end itemize

@bye
